include::../common/substitutions/global.txt[]

////
Copyright (C) 2014 Robert Winslow Dalpe

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
////

=== Classes in {nation_name}

==== Barbarians

The civilized and well-kept lands of glossterm::[{nation_name}] are inhospitable 
to barbarian tribes. Barbarism and brutishness are frowned upon universally 
across the country, and many barbarians would find it a challenge to be welcomed 
or to fit in. As there are no naturally occurring tribes in the valley, most 
barbarians trace their origins elsewhere in glossterm::[{continent_name}]. In 
particular, barbarians thrive in the blazing sands of 
glossterm::[{desert_kingdom}] and in the gladiatorial pits of 
glossterm::[{cliffs_nation}].

In glossterm::[{desert_kingdom}], fire-blooded glossterm::[{firepeople}] are the 
warriors of nomadic tribes who roam the desert, never staying in one place for 
too long. The glossterm::[{firepeople}, {firepeople}'s] nomadism is driven by 
their perceived duty to safeguard their home and its culture. Despite their 
traditionalism and battlelust, many glossterm::[{firepeople}] are pragmatists 
and some fund their tribe's goals by working as mercenaries. Others may be 
outcasts or glory seekers looking to start a new life in a land different from 
what they have known.

glossterm::[{cliffs_nation}, {cliffs_nation_person}] barbarians frequently rise 
to great ranks in the warrior culture of their homeland. There, where power and 
determination are revered, barbarians can live akin to nobility. However, feats 
of greatness must be constantly proven, and one can only rise so high without a 
worthy tale of one's own. To this end, many leave glossterm::[{cliffs_nation}] 
to travel the continent in search of fame and honor. But for each glorified 
warrior, there are many defeated ones in his wake, and some among them are 
barbarians looking to redeem their names in a new land.

==== Bards

As a cultural wellspring, glossterm::[{nation_name}]{mdash}and in particular the 
<<player-guide.central_cities,Central Cities>>{mdash}holds performance and 
entertainment in high esteem and demand. One of the central cities, 
<<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>, is completely dedicated to the 
betterment and enjoyment of the arts, and any performer can find opportunity 
there. Manifesting from frenetic street festivals, to the studious halls of 
<<player-guide.arts_college>>, to the crystalline elegance of the 
<<player-guide.amphitheater>> amphitheater, the passions of 
<<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}'s>> citizens know no limits. This intensity has even 
produced a saying known throughout the nation: no great performer will forever 
die so long as there is music in <<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>.

Even outside of <<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>, a performer has many 
opportunities to excel. Politicians, storeowners, and merchant guilds are all 
keenly aware of the impact a charismatic face can have, and many seek the 
services of skilled spokesmen. Travelers, far from their homes, find comfort in 
local song and art even in a land so distant. And a rural life may become grim 
indeed without wanderers who tell tales or sing songs of grand excitement and 
adventure.

==== Clerics

Although outwardly glossterm::[{nation_name}] may seem thoroughly secular and 
unaffiliated, its history and government are steeped in religion. The temples of 
Abadar, Shelyn, and Cayden Cailean hold particularly strong political influence, 
and many of their clerics become officiaries in the grand courts of 
<<player-guide.law_city,{law_city}>>. But for every cleric who wields the might 
of cities, there are a thousand others dedicated to more personal endeavors.

Clerics of many faiths, but especially of Sarenrae, Pharasma, and Erastil, roam 
the cities and countryside performing good works and aiding public services. 
Some heed a call to protect their loved ones, and join the 
glossterm::[{police}]{mdash}a calling often heard by the faithful of Iomedae. 
Others still seek scholarship in the <<player-guide.library>> or 
<<player-guide.arts_college>>, or to study the mysterious and powerful relic 
shrines that dot the country.

==== Druids

The bounteous lands of the valley of glossterm::[{valley_name}] are full of 
marvelous phenonmena and natural resources, and there is great need for those 
who would steward those resources correctly. As a result, the druidic population 
of glossterm::[{nation_name}] is not just composed of local druids, but also of 
those who have traveled long distances to experience the wonders of the valley. 
In particular, the nation has a considerable influx of druids from 
glossterm::[{forest_nation}]{mdash}even those of the reclusive 
glossterm::[{beast_tribes}]. Once in the country, druids tend to pursue their 
own goals as wanderers, members of a grove, or even as members of larger 
organizations for{mdash}or perhaps against{mdash}the government.

Groves are groups of druids that typially gather together at sites of particular 
spiritual significance. There, they tend to flora and fauna of the area and 
ensure that the site is preserved against any who would do it harm. The 
glossterm::[{falls_druids}] are especially well known to locals and tourists for 
their protection of the glossterm::[{falls}] area, and are perhaps more famous 
than the druids would like.

Druids that are members of larger organizations tend to work with a temple or 
the government. There they perform local functions such as ensuring that harbors 
and rivers are maintained, and giving advance warning for weather. They may also 
perform environmental advisories and studies for government projects. Not all 
organizations are so friendly towards the smooth operation of local and national 
government, however. One particularly infamous group, known as the 
glossterm::[{bad_druids}], are publicly a pro-nature lobbying group and they 
frequently clash with other agencies on matters of environmental policy.

==== Fighters

Martial prowess is a much sought after skill in glossterm::[{nation_name}], and 
the gifted will find many opportunities to display their strengths. Although 
there is no formal army, the glossterm::[{police}] is always looking for those 
of sharp mind and strong arm to help keep the peace. Because of their limited 
manpower, the glossterm::[{police}, police] have learned to fight smart, and 
they employ a wide range of skilled combat researchers and engineers to develop 
new tactics and equipment. Fighters looking to earn more than the govnerment is 
willing to pay might prefer to take on the role of bodyguard or strongman for a 
wealthy noble or shop owner. Others still may prefer to take a riskier path and 
bring their feats to the stage as combat performers {mdash}masquerading their 
deadly arts as performance pieces or sport in the <<player-guide.stadium>> of 
<<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>. Outside the 
<<player-guide.central_cities, Central Cities>>, those skilled in combat and 
with good knowledge of the land excel as hunters or guards for villages and 
trade caravans.

==== Monks

There is only one official monk sect in the nation, the 
glossterm::[{monk_sect}]. They are a sect sworn to poverty and truth. In 
addition to the good works they do for the communities around the country, they 
also act as a counter-lobby to the economic elite of glossterm::[{nation_name}]. 
Although there is only one official sect, many of the librarians in the 
<<player-guide.library>> are monks who worship Irori. Regardless of affiliation, 
martial skill and spiritual leadership are valued traits all around the nation. 
Whether as enforcers for the glossterm::[{police}], covert bodyguards, 
performers, or guides for those who wander from the path to enlightenment, a 
monk will not find herself without a purpose for long.

[role=half-image]
image::https://googledrive.com/host/0B7b9uMyuu5dveGVfNTNqYldJZmc[]

==== Paladins

Although the nation was founded as the result of a crusade, its economic and 
political success have made the environment less than welcoming for holy 
knights. Many government and mercantile leaders seen paladins as unpredictable 
and potentially disruptive zealots who might damage the smooth functioning of 
the nation. Even among the temples represented in the 
<<player-guide.govt,Senate>>, most choose to send their paladins to other parts 
of the world. However, there are many causes worthy of advancement in 
glossterm::[{nation_name}], and those who can adhere to more tolerant or 
flexible codes frequently find their efforts rewarded. In particular, paladins 
of Sarenrae and Erastil are often welcomed with open arms for their attempts to 
be understanding and mend the sufferings of the people. Some members of the 
glossterm::[{police}] are also paladins of Iomedae, and they snuff out crime and 
corruption with zeal{mdash}though always under the careful guidance of their 
superiors.

But despite the best efforts of the nation's leadership to keep the zealots 
away, they are not always so successful. There are occasional instances of 
activism from both clandestine and public groups of divine warriors who vie for 
greater recognition and political influence.

==== Rangers

Although the valley of glossterm::[{valley_name}] is relatively small and 
geographially isolated, much of its lands have yet to be tamed and its mines 
have yet to be fully charted. The wilds can be dangerous, and as the people of 
glossterm::[{nation_name}] forge ever outwards and downwards they are in need of 
those who can provide guidance through unknown perils. Explorers and hunters ply 
the forests and mountains for quarry of bear, wolves, mountain lions, or perhaps 
an Aurumvorax caught feasting on a surface ore vein. The brave or foolhardy 
willing to delve deep into caverns on behalf of mining operations may find foes 
stranger still, but great bounty awaits those who fulfill their duties.

In the parts of the country fresh with civilization, seasoned woodsmen and 
outland glossterm::[{police},police] patrols protect fledgling villages and 
secure survival from season to season. Meanwhile in the heart of the country, 
those with connections to the wilds can deal in lucrative exotic pelts, 
trophies, and other goods. For those who do not wish to exploit their talents 
for profit from slaughter there are many men, women, and children who will pay 
handsomly to see talented animals and their trainers perform in 
<<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>.

==== Rogues

Although the <<player-guide.central_cities, Central Cities>> are lawful and safe 
places, a rogue's talents are nonetheless very useful. Merchants and politicians 
alike can always find a role for someone with quick hands and silent feet, and 
in a land of tourism and commerce pickpockets and con artists have ample choice 
of targets if they're willing to take the risk. Some reformed scoundrels might 
choose to redeem themselves as bounty hunters or undercover agents for the 
glossterm::[{police}]. Others instead opt to live as performers{mdash}bringing 
joy and excitement instead of aggravation and ruin. The 
glossterm::[{knife_throwers}] is particularly well known for taking in those of 
dubious pasts and repurposing them to more gainful employment as skillful 
daredevils.

Outside of the <<player-guide.central_cities, Central Cities>>, rural life 
provides fewer opportunities for a rogue, and those who cannot or will not make 
livings as trappers or hunters often turn to criminal undertakings.

==== Sorcerers

Opportunities of all kinds can appear unexpectedly in 
glossterm::[{nation_name}], and a sorcerer's ability to instanly access the full 
wealth of her magical strengths is an invaluable tool for responding to sudden 
windfalls. In the bustling <<player-guide.central_cities, Central Cities>>, 
sorcerers are valued as enchanters in crafting workshops, but they are 
especially valued in <<player-guide.arts_city,{arts_city}>>. There, the 
constantly changing festivals and performances often demand immediate response 
to crazy schemes and outlandish requests. A company of sorcerers known as 
glossterm::[{fireworks_co}] has specialized in this field, and keeps a sizable 
retinue of magical adepts on retainer for hire by performers in need.

A sorcerer's natural force of personality also benefits those who choose to
employ their powers to further some goal beyond wealth and entertainment. Many
sorcerers of celestial and infernal bloodlines take leadership positions in
local government and mercantile operations, where they excel in bringing allies
and adversaries under their sway. Others still choose to unleash the full extent
of their potential as members of the glossterm::[{police}].

==== Wizards

The vast libraries and combined cultural knowledge of the 
<<player-guide.central_cities, Central Cities>> are a great resource to many 
wizards, and none will struggle to find employment here. The government of 
glossterm::[{nation_name}] employs a huge number of wizards in the 
glossterm::[{customs_dept}], where they research and approve requests for 
transit using the country's glossterm::[{portals},magical gates]. This approval 
process also involves the charging of keys for the gates and their tranmission 
to the proper recipients. In exchange for their services and loyalties, the 
glossterm::[{customs_dept}] funds research grants for these wizards and also 
provides shelter and workspaces.

Craftsman also value skilled wizards, and many vie to employ the best in their 
workshops. For those who cannot afford a full time enchanter, supply shops offer 
the end results of the creative process. glossterm::[{magic_supply}] is a 
particularly well known name in <<player-guide.market_city,{market_city}>>, and 
it employs skilled enchanters to fulfill bulk and custom requests for their 
clients.
